In this video we are troubleshooting network connectivity problems.
We've been told in this scenario that broader one which is a viral rudder running ingenious three is
not able to ping the looped back of viral rudder to put the loop back of quadruple full.
And that's true show IP raft shows us that we only have a connected and local network in the routing
table show IP protocols shows us that we are running the risk P.F. routing protocol and it's enabled
on all interfaces on the router show IP SPF neighbor shows us that we have a full relationship with
a neighboring Rada with IP address 10 1 2 1 which is this right one rather so on a one show IP always
P.F. neighbor we only have a neighbor relationship to tend to one but wondered one rod on the left that's
on interface fast ethernet zero zero show IP protocols or SPF is enabled on this broader and is enabled
on all interfaces show IP SPF interface brief we have a SPF enabled on the serial interface and Andrew
the fast ethernet interface can you see the problem.
Notice the state of the serial interfaces down to show IP interface brief we can see that the serial
interface is up or down.
Something wrong with the serial interface show run interface serial to slash zero shows us that an IP
addresses configured on the serial interface but to the interface is no shut in other words it's administratively
up nothing else is shown so show interface several to slash zero we can see that the interface is up
down we can see the encapsulation keep alive is set to ten seconds let's have a look at it to show IP
with P.F. interface brief we can see once again that oh SPF is enabled on the surreal interface but
the neighbor relationship is down show IP interface brief interface is up down so this interface has
not been administratively shut down show interface Cyril to slash 0 Can you see the problem.
What's wrong in this output notice here.
Encapsulation HDL C on the side encapsulation p p p show run interface several to slash zero.
We can see that the site is being set to use PPC encapsulation so we need to either set it to use HDL
C which is the default on Cisco's serial interfaces or we need to set the encapsulation to BP on both
sides so set the encapsulation to HDL C show IP interface brief
interfaces up and down.
But notice it's just come up and notice the OSP f relationship has gone to full so on right one show
IP of SPF neighbor.
Notice we now have two neighbor relationships one to write a two across the several interface and one
to this I was V rather on the left using the first Ethernet interface so that looks a lot better.
Let's have a look at the writing table of router 1 which is a viral I V router we now see the loop back
quadruple for in the writing table.
So can we ping that loop back.
Yes we can.
I'm going to disable IP domain look up to speed up tracing so trace could ripple for the trace.
Shows us the path that goes to the strata one with the serpent face to write it too with a surreal interface
and then on to the eye a v rudder with the loop back could ripple for now to prove that I could do a
debug set debug IP ICMP to ping and notice we see the output on the screen of this right.
So be careful when asked to troubleshoot a writing protocol such as I was P.F. in the CCMA exam.
The issue could be unrelated to 0 SPF the issue could be an interface that's been mis configured.
In this example the encapsulation was incorrect.
You have to have either HDL C on both sides or BPP on both sides of a serial link.
A mismatch caused the interface to go up down.
In other words the interface was administratively up but the line protocol was down which caused an
issue with broad exchange and advertisement which meant that we couldn't send traffic from the left
hand side of the network to the right hand side of the network.
If you enjoyed the video please like it.
And please subscribe to our YouTube channel.
I wish you all the very best.